.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, before:

<!-- Please take a look at our [Contributing](../blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
documentation before submitting a Pull Request!
Thank you for contributing to Crossplane! -->

**Description of your changes:**

**Which issue is resolved by this Pull Request:**
Resolves #

**Checklist:**
- [ ] Documentation has been updated, if necessary.
- [ ] Pending release notes updated with breaking and/or notable changes, if necessary.
- [ ] Upgrade from previous release is tested and upgrade user guide is updated, if necessary.
- [ ] Code generation (`make generate`) has been run to update object specifications, if necessary.
- [ ] CRD manifests generation (`make manifests`) has been run to update CRD manifests yaml file specifications, if necessary.
- [ ] Update dependencies (`make vendor`) has been run to update `Gopkg.lock` file, if necessary
- [ ] All related commits have been squashed to improve readability.
- [ ] Comments have been added or updated based on the standards set in [CONTRIBUTING.md](../blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#comments)

Commit message:

update RBAC permissions for storage.azure.crossplane.io, add PR template checklist item for RBAC
Signed-off-by: Jared Watts <jbw976@gmail.com>

.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, after:

<!-- Please take a look at our [Contributing](../blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
documentation before submitting a Pull Request!
Thank you for contributing to Crossplane! -->

**Description of your changes:**

**Which issue is resolved by this Pull Request:**
Resolves #

**Checklist:**
- [ ] Documentation has been updated, if necessary.
- [ ] Pending release notes updated with breaking and/or notable changes, if necessary.
- [ ] Upgrade from previous release is tested and upgrade user guide is updated, if necessary.
- [ ] Code generation (`make generate`) has been run to update object specifications, if necessary.
- [ ] CRD manifests generation (`make manifests`) has been run to update CRD manifests yaml file specifications, if necessary.
- [ ] Update dependencies (`make vendor`) has been run to update `Gopkg.lock` file, if necessary
- [ ] RBAC permissions in `clusterrole.yaml` have been updated to include new types, if necessary
- [ ] All related commits have been squashed to improve readability.
- [ ] Comments have been added or updated based on the standards set in [CONTRIBUTING.md](../blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#comments)
