docs/AUTHENTICATION.md, before:

# Authenticating to Google Cloud APIs

`provider-gcp` requires credentials to be provided in order to authenticate to
the Google Cloud APIs. This can be done in one of the following ways:

- Authenticating using a base-64 encoded service account key in a Kubernetes
  `Secret`. This is described in detail [here](https://crossplane.io/docs/v1.6/getting-started/install-configure.html#get-gcp-account-keyfile).
- Authenticating using [Workload Identity](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/concepts/workload-identity).
  This is described in the [section below](#authenticating-with-workload-identity).

## Authenticating with Workload Identity

*Note: This method is supported in `provider-gcp` v0.20.0 and later.*

Using Workload Identity requires some additional setup.
Many of the steps can also be found in the [documentation](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/workload-identity).

### Steps

These steps assume you already have a running GKE cluster which has already
enabled Workload Identity and has a sufficiently large node pool.

Note that you can specify any valid strings to the variables below unless the
variable is explicitly assigned.

#### 1. Install Crossplane

Install Crossplane from `stable` channel:

```bash
$ helm repo add crossplane-stable https://charts.crossplane.io/stable
$ helm install crossplane --create-namespace --namespace crossplane-system crossplane-stable/crossplane
```

`provider-gcp` can be installed with either the [Crossplane CLI](https://crossplane.io/docs/v1.6/getting-started/install-configure.html#install-crossplane-cli)
or a `Provider` resource as below:

```console
$ cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: pkg.crossplane.io/v1
kind: Provider
metadata:
  name: ${PROVIDER_GCP}
spec:
  package: crossplane/provider-gcp:v${VERSION} # v0.20.0 or later
  # Set a controllerConfigRef if you have a ControllerConfig:
  # controllerConfigRef:
  #   name: ${CONTROLLER_CONFIG}
EOF
```

#### 2. Configure service accounts to use Workload Identity

Create a GCP service account, which will be used for provisioning actual
infrastructure in GCP, and grant IAM roles you need for accessing the Google
Cloud APIs:

```console
$ gcloud iam service-accounts create ${GCP_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}
$ gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding ${PROJECT_ID} \
    --member "serviceAccount:${GCP_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}@${PROJECT_ID}.iam.gserviceaccount.com" \
    --role ${ROLE} \
    --project ${PROJECT_ID}
```

Get the name of your current `ProviderRevision` of this provider:

```console
$ REVISION=$(kubectl get providers.pkg.crossplane.io ${PROVIDER_GCP} -o jsonpath="{.status.currentRevision}")
```

Next, you'll configure IAM to use Workload Identity.
In this step, you can choose one of the following options to configure service accounts:

- [Option 1] Use a Kubernetes `ServiceAccount` managed by a provider's controller.
- [Option 2] Use a Kubernetes `ServiceAccount` which you created and is specified to `.spec.serviceAccountName`
  in a [`ControllerConfig`](https://doc.crds.dev/github.com/crossplane/crossplane/pkg.crossplane.io/ControllerConfig/v1alpha1@v1.6.2).

##### 2.1. [Option 1] Use a controller-managed `ServiceAccount`

Specify a Kubernetes `ServiceAccount` with the revision you got in the last
step:

```console
$ KUBERNETES_SERVICE_ACCOUNT=${REVISION}
```

##### 2.1. [Option 2] Use a user-managed `ServiceAccount`

Create a `ServiceAccount`, `ControllerConfig`, and `ClusterRoleBinding`:

```console
$ cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: ${KUBERNETES_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}
  namespace: crossplane-system
---
apiVersion: pkg.crossplane.io/v1alpha1
kind: ControllerConfig
metadata:
  name: ${CONTROLLER_CONFIG}
spec:
  serviceAccountName: ${KUBERNETES_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: crossplane:provider:${PROVIDER_GCP}:system
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: crossplane:provider:${REVISION}:system
subjects:
- kind: ServiceAccount
  name: ${KUBERNETES_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}
  namespace: crossplane-system
EOF
```

#### 2.2. Allow the Kubernetes `ServiceAccount` to impersonate the GCP service account

Grant `roles/iam.workloadIdentityUser` to the GCP service account:

```console
$ gcloud iam service-accounts add-iam-policy-binding \
    ${GCP_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}@${PROJECT_ID}.iam.gserviceaccount.com \
    --role roles/iam.workloadIdentityUser \
    --member "serviceAccount:${PROJECT_ID}.svc.id.goog[crossplane-system/${KUBERNETES_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}]" \
    --project ${PROJECT_ID}
```

Annotate the `ServiceAccount` with the email address of the GCP service account:

```console
$ kubectl annotate serviceaccount ${KUBERNETES_SERVICE_ACCOUNT} \
    iam.gke.io/gcp-service-account=${GCP_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}@${PROJECT_ID}.iam.gserviceaccount.com \
    -n crossplane-system
```

### 3. Configure a `ProviderConfig`

Create a `ProviderConfig` with `InjectedIdentity` in `.spec.credentials.source`:

```console
$ cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: gcp.crossplane.io/v1beta1
kind: ProviderConfig
metadata:
  name: default
spec:
  projectID: $PROJECT_ID
  credentials:
    source: InjectedIdentity
EOF
```

### 4. Next steps

Now that you have configured `provider-gcp` with Workload Identity supported,
you can [provision infrastructure](https://crossplane.io/docs/v1.6/getting-started/provision-infrastructure).

Commit message:

Add step to define variables' names
Adds a step to define variables' names so that users can smoothly set up
authentication with Workload Identity in `provider-gcp`.

Signed-off-by: micnncim <micnncim@gmail.com>

docs/AUTHENTICATION.md, after:

# Authenticating to Google Cloud APIs

`provider-gcp` requires credentials to be provided in order to authenticate to
the Google Cloud APIs. This can be done in one of the following ways:

- Authenticating using a base-64 encoded service account key in a Kubernetes
  `Secret`. This is described in detail [here](https://crossplane.io/docs/v1.6/getting-started/install-configure.html#get-gcp-account-keyfile).
- Authenticating using [Workload Identity](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/concepts/workload-identity).
  This is described in the [section below](#authenticating-with-workload-identity).

## Authenticating with Workload Identity

*Note: This method is supported in `provider-gcp` v0.20.0 and later.*

Using Workload Identity requires some additional setup.
Many of the steps can also be found in the [documentation](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/workload-identity).

### Steps

These steps assume you already have a running GKE cluster which has already
enabled Workload Identity and has a sufficiently large node pool.

#### 0. Prepare your variables

In the following sections, you'll need to name your resources.
Define the variables below with any names valid in Kubernetes or GCP so that you
can smoothly set it up:

```console
$ PROJECT_ID=<YOUR_GCP_PROJECT_ID>                               # e.g.) acme-prod
$ PROVIDER_GCP=<YOUR_PROVIDER_GCP_NAME>                          # e.g.) provider-gcp
$ VERSION=<YOUR_PROVIDER_GCP_VERSION>                            # e.g.) 0.20.0
$ GCP_SERVICE_ACCOUNT=<YOUR_CROSSPLANE_GCP_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_NAME> # e.g.) crossplane
$ ROLE=<YOUR_ROLE_FOR_CROSSPLANE_GCP_SERVICE_ACCOUNT>            # e.g.) roles/cloudsql.admin
$ CONTROLLER_CONFIG=<YOUR_CONTROLLER_CONFIG_NAME>                # e.g.) gcp-config (Optional)
```

#### 1. Install Crossplane

Install Crossplane from `stable` channel:

```bash
$ helm repo add crossplane-stable https://charts.crossplane.io/stable
$ helm install crossplane --create-namespace --namespace crossplane-system crossplane-stable/crossplane
```

`provider-gcp` can be installed with either the [Crossplane CLI](https://crossplane.io/docs/v1.6/getting-started/install-configure.html#install-crossplane-cli)
or a `Provider` resource as below:

```console
$ cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: pkg.crossplane.io/v1
kind: Provider
metadata:
  name: ${PROVIDER_GCP}
spec:
  package: crossplane/provider-gcp:v${VERSION} # v0.20.0 or later
  # Set a controllerConfigRef if you have a ControllerConfig:
  # controllerConfigRef:
  #   name: ${CONTROLLER_CONFIG}
EOF
```

#### 2. Configure service accounts to use Workload Identity

Create a GCP service account, which will be used for provisioning actual
infrastructure in GCP, and grant IAM roles you need for accessing the Google
Cloud APIs:

```console
$ gcloud iam service-accounts create ${GCP_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}
$ gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding ${PROJECT_ID} \
    --member "serviceAccount:${GCP_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}@${PROJECT_ID}.iam.gserviceaccount.com" \
    --role ${ROLE} \
    --project ${PROJECT_ID}
```

Get the name of your current `ProviderRevision` of this provider:

```console
$ REVISION=$(kubectl get providers.pkg.crossplane.io ${PROVIDER_GCP} -o jsonpath="{.status.currentRevision}")
```

Next, you'll configure IAM to use Workload Identity.
In this step, you can choose one of the following options to configure service accounts:

- [Option 1] Use a Kubernetes `ServiceAccount` managed by a provider's controller.
- [Option 2] Use a Kubernetes `ServiceAccount` which you created and is specified to `.spec.serviceAccountName`
  in a [`ControllerConfig`](https://doc.crds.dev/github.com/crossplane/crossplane/pkg.crossplane.io/ControllerConfig/v1alpha1@v1.6.2).

##### 2.1. [Option 1] Use a controller-managed `ServiceAccount`

Specify a Kubernetes `ServiceAccount` with the revision you got in the last
step:

```console
$ KUBERNETES_SERVICE_ACCOUNT=${REVISION}
```

##### 2.1. [Option 2] Use a user-managed `ServiceAccount`

Name your Kubernetes `ServiceAccount`:

```console
$ KUBERNETES_SERVICE_ACCOUNT=<YOUR_KUBERNETES_SERVICE_ACCOUNT>
```

Create a `ServiceAccount`, `ControllerConfig`, and `ClusterRoleBinding`:

```console
$ cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: ${KUBERNETES_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}
  namespace: crossplane-system
---
apiVersion: pkg.crossplane.io/v1alpha1
kind: ControllerConfig
metadata:
  name: ${CONTROLLER_CONFIG}
spec:
  serviceAccountName: ${KUBERNETES_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: crossplane:provider:${PROVIDER_GCP}:system
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: crossplane:provider:${REVISION}:system
subjects:
- kind: ServiceAccount
  name: ${KUBERNETES_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}
  namespace: crossplane-system
EOF
```

#### 2.2. Allow the Kubernetes `ServiceAccount` to impersonate the GCP service account

Grant `roles/iam.workloadIdentityUser` to the GCP service account:

```console
$ gcloud iam service-accounts add-iam-policy-binding \
    ${GCP_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}@${PROJECT_ID}.iam.gserviceaccount.com \
    --role roles/iam.workloadIdentityUser \
    --member "serviceAccount:${PROJECT_ID}.svc.id.goog[crossplane-system/${KUBERNETES_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}]" \
    --project ${PROJECT_ID}
```

Annotate the `ServiceAccount` with the email address of the GCP service account:

```console
$ kubectl annotate serviceaccount ${KUBERNETES_SERVICE_ACCOUNT} \
    iam.gke.io/gcp-service-account=${GCP_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}@${PROJECT_ID}.iam.gserviceaccount.com \
    -n crossplane-system
```

### 3. Configure a `ProviderConfig`

Create a `ProviderConfig` with `InjectedIdentity` in `.spec.credentials.source`:

```console
$ cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: gcp.crossplane.io/v1beta1
kind: ProviderConfig
metadata:
  name: default
spec:
  projectID: ${PROJECT_ID}
  credentials:
    source: InjectedIdentity
EOF
```

### 4. Next steps

Now that you have configured `provider-gcp` with Workload Identity supported,
you can [provision infrastructure](https://crossplane.io/docs/v1.6/getting-started/provision-infrastructure).
